There are many ways to
look at this process.
One way of looking at it
as two distinct activities.
Mainly, big data engineering and
big data analytics,
or computational big data
science as I like to call it,
since more than simple
analytics are being performed.
A more detailed way of looking at
the process reveals five listing steps or
activities of the data science process,
namely acquire, prepare,
analyze, report, and act.
We can simply say that data science
happens at the boundary of all the steps.
Ideally, this process should
support experimental work,
which is constantly iterated and
leads to more scientific exploration,
as well as producing actionable
results during these explorations
using dynamic scalability on big data and
cloud platforms.
This five step process can be used in
alternative ways in real life big data
applications if we add the dependencies
of different tools to each other.
The influence of big data pushes for
alternative scalability approaches
at each step of the process.
Acquire includes anything
that helps us retrieve data,
including finding, accessing,
acquiring, and moving data.
It includes identification of and
authenticated access to all related data,
as well as transportation of data
from sources to destinations.
It includes ways to subset and
match the data to regions or
times of interest, which we sometimes
refer to as geospatial querying.
We divide the prepare data
step into two sub-steps,
based on the nature of the activity.
The first step in data preparation
involves exploring the data
to understand its nature,
what it means, its quality, and format.
It often takes a preliminary
analysis of data, or
samples of data, to understand it.
This is why this primary
step is called prepare.
Once we know more about the data
through exploratory analysis,
the next step is pre-processing
of data for analysis.
It includes cleaning data,
subsetting, or filtering data, and
creating data, which programs can read and
understand by modelling raw data
into a more defined data model, or
packaging it using a specific data format.
We will learn more about data models and
data formats later in this course.
If there are multiple data sets involved,
this step also includes integration
of different data sources or
streams, which is a topic we will
explore in our course three.
The prepared data then would be
passed on to the analysis step,
which involves selection of
analytical techniques to use,
building a model of the data,
and analyzing results.
This step can take a couple
of iterations on its own or
might require a data scientist
to go back to steps 1 and
2 to get more data or
package data in a different way.
So, exploration never ends.
Step 4 for communicating results includes
evaluation of analytical results,
presenting them in a visual way,
creating reports that include
an assessment of results with
respect to success criteria.
Activities in this step can often be
referred to with terms like interpret,
summarize, visualize, and post-process.
The last step brings us back to the very
first reason we do data science,
for a purpose.
Reporting insights from analysis and
determining actions from insights based
on the purpose you initially defined
is what we refer to as the act step.
We have now seen all of the steps
in a typical data science process.
Please note that this is an iterative
process and findings from
one step may require previous steps
to be repeated, but need information,
leading for further exploration and
application of these steps.
Scalability of this process to big
data analysis requires the use of
big data platforms like Hadoop.